Monday, June 5th 2023
Created a python block in GNU radio. The goal of the block was to only allow a signal through if it was recieving a byte input. This block is the first step towards making the code automatically detect and separate lightning signals. The next step will be creating a block that will turn a one byte inpulse into a longer signal. I'm thinking a while loop to stall time and cause the output to be a one for longer.

Tuesday, June 6th 2023
I managed to find a way to create the stall gate that I needed to lengthen the signals. I did it by nesting a few if statements. When the block recieves a 1 it switches a variable from 0 to one. From that point on whenever it recieves a signal it adds one to another variable until it reaches a specified number. The whole GNU radio is now set up and will seperate out lightning strikes from a wav file. At least in theory since we haven't had a storm yet.

Wednesday, June 7th 2023
The peak detector in the program began to malfunction, it was frequently signaling for peaks in the noise and not just when lightning occured. I attempted to adjust the peak detector's perameters to reduce the false positive, but I was only able to reduce it so much. This issue would render the program in it's current stage useless. I found a block that would add a threshold so no noise would reach the peak detecter so it would only recieve the lightning signals. The threshold worked well temporarily, but would bug out and produce a constant high signal no matter the input. After some trial and error I found that a pulse of -1 amplitude would reset the threshold and allow it to continue working. I implemented a squarewave signal of -1 amplitude to continuously reset the threshold. This also fixed a small bug where the program would also start recording immediatly as the noise began, now because there was no noise the program would only record the lightning. 

Thursday, June 8th 2023
I altered my program a bit to make it more sensitive. My initial simulated lightning was of likely exagerated power so I simulated some less powerful lightning and recalibrated my code. While recalibrating it I found that the peak detector and some associated pieces were no longer necessary because the threshold lock was able to produce the same stops and starts without false positives. My program is now significantly simpler. I also found that the power squelch block is able to put out null signals unless an input exceeds a threshold. This allows me to make wav files that contain only lightning events without dead air.

Friday, June 9th
I connected the external hard drive and set up both SDR++ and GNURadio to save to the external hard drive. I found the frequency band that, according to my research, is good for tracking lightning. This band was 550-2270 kHz. I bookmarked that frequency in SDR++ and took some test readings to make sure everything was in order. I also connected the HackRF and found that it was showing a lot of strange noise. I might try reinstalling the drivers and making sure all is in order. 
