# Daily Blog

**June 19th 2023**
I went through orientation in the morning and completed all the required training tasks in Dash just to get them out of the way. Then I created my quad chart and started familiarizing myself with the Waggle github sage python libraries and interface. I talked with Seongha at 2 just to discuss the first steps for my project and to try to make it so I have access to the actual image data. I also set up my environment and plan to start implementing and intial draft of a ResNet model for snow classification tomorrow in PyTorch.

**June 20th 2023**
I created a basic model based on ResNet for transfer learning then worked out getting the images on my computer. I ran into some problems with ubuntu (my firewall was blocking my ability to use apt-get) but after I got that fixed I was able to download all the images between October and November from node W014. Defintely a little rusty in linux, but I'm getting back into it and should be better as the Summer goes on. There are about 750 images with snow on the ground and about 350 without. There are also about 20 where there is only a little bit of snow or where it started snowing in the night and was difficult to tell when there was snow on the ground. I labeled those as unclear. I also excluded the top sensor of W014 as it really only showed the post and there wasn't a good way to see if there was snow on the ground from that angle. Tomorrow I'll take a look at the images from W083, which I assume will have more examples without snow at the very least. Not sure if the different angle/location will matter. Tomorrow I'll also try to complete the training loop and try running the images from W014 through the model to have some results for Thursday.

**June 21st 2023**
Pulled image data from W083 from "2023-02-01T01:00:00Z" to "2023-05-10T01:00:00Z". Camera is pointed at the same location as W014 but a slightly different angle.